Last year, a small act of kindness from a stranger changed the way I see the people around me.

It was a rainy Friday evening and I was on my way home from my co-curricular activity. I was tired and hungry, and all I wanted was to get home quickly. When I reached the bus stop, I checked my pocket for my bus card and realised that it was missing. I searched my bag again and again, but it was not there. I had no coins with me as well, because I had spent my last two dollars on a drink after training.

I did not know what to do. My house was eight bus stops away and the rain was getting heavier. My phone battery was flat, so I could not call my mother. I stood at the bus stop feeling helpless and a little afraid, as the sky was getting dark.

An elderly cleaner was sitting on the bench beside me. She was wearing a faded uniform and holding a plastic bag of vegetables. She must have seen me searching my bag, because she asked me in Mandarin what was wrong. When I told her, she did not say anything. She just opened her small purse, took out a two-dollar note and pressed it into my hand. I tried to refuse, since I could see that she did not have much money, but she smiled and said that her grandson was about my age.

I took the bus home safely that night. However, I could not stop thinking about her. Two dollars was a small amount, but to her it was probably a meal. She gave it to a student she had never met, and she did not expect anything in return.

The next week, I went back to the same bus stop at the same time with the money and a packet of biscuits. She was there again. When I returned the two dollars, she laughed and scolded me for remembering. We talked until her bus came, and I found out that she works two jobs to support her family.

Since then, I greet the cleaners in my school every morning, which I never did before. I have also learnt to keep some extra coins in my bag, in case someone else needs them one day. Her kindness was small, but it taught me that I should notice the people whom I used to ignore, and that helping somebody does not require a lot of money.
